we'll get more on that from Gaza we've
got hanim Mahmud is reporting in darl
Bala this is in central Gaza Sara kyat
will have the Israeli reaction first
they want to go straight to un
headquarters in New York and Gabriel
elzando who is following this and so
Gabe tell me more about the this report
it's important because this is
essentially a list of uh parties to
conflict who commit grave violations
against children we are eight months
into this war and actually every few
years we have seen the bombardment of
the Gaza Strip the UN seems to have
shied away from this move but now it's
happening yeah that's right and maybe
the secretary General's hand was almost
forced because as you mentioned uh more
than 15,000 children now dead in Gaza
since Israel began its war on Gaza now
this is a list that is put out by the
Secretary General every year for many
years now and no country or no party to
an armed conflict wants to be on this
list in fact it's uh known as the list
of Shame if you will uh and so that is
why Israel has pushed for many years not
to be included on this despite many uh
reports of Israel uh injuring and
killing Palestinian children well that
has now changed they are on this list
confirmed uh this list that will be
released later this month
however the UN was sort of forced to
confirm this today on Friday because the
secretary General's office uh kind of
gave a heads up to the UN Ambassador uh
the Israeli ambassador to the UN and
then he posted on social media a
response and the recording of the phone
call and that certainly uh outraged the
United Nations this was their response
to
that the call was a courtesy for rep it
to countries that are newly listed on
the annex of the report it is done to
give those countries a heads up and
avoid
leaks uh Ambassador uh eron's video
recording of that phone call and the
partial release of that recording on
Twitter is shocking and unacceptable and
frankly something I've never seen in my
24 years serving this
organization Gabe are there any
practical implications or Consequences
to Israel being included on this
list well we asked the spokesperson that
he said well that's up for every member
state to really decide but certainly uh
this sends a very loud and clear message
uh that Israel is in violation of their
obligation to protect children during
armed conflict there's certainly some
political and very much diplomatic
consequences because this really
includes Israel on a list that no
country or any armed any party to an
conflict wants to be part of uh this is
an extensive report that's put out every
year just last year it was more than 40
pages long it's very detailed and so now
it essentially will put more pressure on
Israel now that they are part of this
and that is why they have uh tried to
not be included for so many years thank
you very much gabri alander bringing all
the latest on this from un headquarters
in New
York responding to the UN disclosure the
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu said in a statement today the
UN added itself to The Black List of
history when it joined those who support
the hamamass murderers the IDF is the
most moral army in the world no
delusional un decision will change
that Sara kyat joins us live now from
Aman any other reaction from Israeli
politicians to
this yeah Mariam there's been uh a few
statements with the same sentiment we
heard from the Israeli foreign minister
Israel cats and he uh posted on X saying
a shameful decision an act of villainy
he called it but he also says that
Antonio guz will be remembered in
history as an anti-semitic uh Secretary
General who chose to ignore hamas's
sexual crimes and Israel's right to
defend itself and of course adding that
it's a statement they've always uh
maintained throughout that they are the
most moral army in the world and then
we've also heard from one of the war
cabinet members Benny uh Gant in a
statement saying that we will continue
to fight our just War he says the UN
puts Israel on the same boat with Isis
while Israel is waging a just war and
it's in uh in accordance to
International uh law um you've also
heard uh and this is being reported by
local Israeli media Mar Ben that's the
National Security uh Minister that
definitely always has something uh to
say and he is saying that the response
to this dangerous matter must be harsh
and should include sanctions against un
officials well U not long ago earlier in
the week actually uh the UN had passed a
preliminary Bill designating unra as uh
the uh as a terrorist organization and
they were looking also uh to bring in
further sanctions against the
organization but also earlier today a
statement saying that they had targeted
a number of Hamas Fighters that had been
coordinating and gathering in a uh an
area that was in a school they said in a
container and they showed a photograph
of that saying that it this container
was based in a un School in the Gaza
Strip so this is the reason why Israel
has says it has been attacking the UN
right from the start of this war but
certainly some strong reaction there
from the Israelis they won't take this
uh lightly they'll definitely uh be
making their voice heard and this will
probably affect those bills that they
had pushed forward in the
knesset thank you very much Sarah
reporting to us from Aman and a reminder
again that
Ben make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaer